---
layout: post
title: Lessons to my future self from the 2010s
permalink: 2010s
draft: true
---
The 2010s were an incredible period of my life with a lot of highs, lows, and most importantly, learnings. In retrospect, they may seem obvious, which is why I'm writing them down as a reminder to my future self.

### Your health is more important than anything else
In January 2014, I was diagnosed with fairly serious tuberculosis. While I managed to recover relatively quickly, it was a scary period and a wake up call: I never prioritized health before that, working ridiculous hours (including a brief period where I pulled all nighters every alternate day), not bothering about eating right, or about working out.
What shook me was the experience of going to the hospital every other day for shots. It wasn't just about what I was going through, but the entire place: seeing the suffering of other people, especially parents with their toddlers, has stuck with me. Falling _that_ sick is the worst experience you will have, and while it's not completely avoidable for us humans, it's certainly minimizeable.
I can genuinely attest that the period since around June 2014 to this day has been pure happiness because of the priorities I've set since.
### Relationships matter, especially in the workplace
I've had the privilege of working on amazing things in the past decade, things I started up, was early on, or just a cog in a big company. What I meant to the entities behind each product was different, but what I've found some commonality in is the bonds I've formed with the people we worked with.
Sure, I'm not going to be as close to the people I work with at Linkedin as the first group of people at Haptik. However, I am more to them than just a colleague. I had long been a fan of [Netflix's culture deck](https://www.slideshare.net/mobile/reed2001/culture-1798664), and the idea that you're in a sports team at work, not a family. I'm not completely aligned with that sentiment anymore, though. What we are outside of our professional capacity matters to many of our colleagues, who care about how we're doing and have true interest in _you_ when they ask you how your weekend was.
If you're at a place where it doesn't feel like that, consider finding another place. You'll be happier for it.
### Write, write, write
I had stopped writing regularly for a long, long time. And the longer that spell dragged on, the more difficult it got to get back in the groove. However, I got over the hump this past year, starting with documents at work and then to blogging.
It doesn't matter if it's great quality or what the readership numbers are — even as I write this I question whether its worth publishing or my time to finish — it's all about the discipline. You're going to be grateful when the next genuinely good idea comes your way that you had the practice.
### Read, read, read
Similarly, I haven't read as much as I used to in the form of books, and I still need to do better on that front. When I read _To kill a mockingbird_ over this past summer, I had deep regrets that this was the first time in the decade that I remember struggling to keep a book down. I need to do better on that front, and use books as a means to truly disconnect and unwind.
### Be true to yourself
Principles are great, but what's important is being constantly aware of and honest with them to yourself. Write them down, constantly return to them, and iterate on them if need be. They will help you make better decisions when the time comes.
